
     Raymond Lowe
     3:700/13


                                 D A I S Y

                                    THE

                     Apple CP/M Bulletin Board System

                                *    *    *

     It seems that there have recently been quite a few queries in the
     net about Daisy, the Apple II BBS of which I am the author, so
     for all those interested here are some details about Daisy.


     Daisy who?
     ----------

     A couple of years ago I was talking to my friend Ken Lo about
     Bulletin Board Systems, and about how hard they were to write.
     This was not a surprising topic of conversation as we are both
     programmers, both BBS users and the conversation in question was
     via messages on one of the local RBBS.

     I thought that BBS were probably pretty hard to code, and were
     way beyond the capabilities of the Apple ][+ which was then my
     main computer (I've since moved up to a //e).

     Ken disagreed, he thought it wouldn't be that hard to produce a
     BBS.  So after some discussion we decided to attempt the
     development of what we referred to at the time as an "Apple
     Fido".

     We decided to use Apple CP/M and Turbo Pascal v2 for the
     development as these were the most advanced systems available to
     both of us.

     With Ken working on the low level serial card drivers, we found
     it necessary to drive the UART directly using memory mapped
     registers, and me on the high level code it wasn't long before
     the first Daisy was running.

     You can well believe that the first call I received using Daisy
     was quite a thrill for me.  Even if a major bug did mean that
     every character the user entered was displayed on a separate
     line.

     That, and many other bugs, were soon found and fixed - it wasn't
     long before the very first version of Daisy was released.

     Of course it was some time before anyone actually USED Daisy to
     run a regular BBS.  But the thrill of coding and debugging kept
     us happy as we quickly developed a whole range of features for
     the system.

     Though it started off as a deliberate backward engineering of
     Fido Daisy soon took on a life and character of its own.  Today
     Daisy includes many features seen in Fido, Opus and other BBS
     together with quite a few features all of its own.

     For Users
     ---------

     From the point of view of a remote user the overall look-and-feel
     is very much that of Opus or Fido.  Most of the commands they are
     already familiar with will work as they expect, and they can use
     the system just fine without ever learning anything about the
     Daisy specific features.

     This only applies to users though; Sysops will find Daisy rather
     different from what they may have seen before.  As I had never
     seen any BBS from the Sysop side when I started writing Daisy I
     had to design everything from scratch.

     For Sysops
     ----------

     The first level of Sysop control is through a point-and-press
     interface available all the time the system is waiting for
     callers. This gives options such as "Start local session", "Edit
     user list", "Event" and the "Terminal mode"; though not all are
     available while a remote user is on-line.

     During a session, be it from the local console or remotely via
     modem, an on-line Sysop menu gives high-level users access to
     another level of commands used to control message areas, message
     renumber, access privilege levels, multiple bulletins and similar
     things.

     At the most detailed level all basic configuration information,
     detailing which drives are to be used and so on, is controlled by
     a text file which can be created using any normal text editor.

     In fact all these configuration options are entirely optional, it
     is perfectly possible to run the BBS by just entering 'BBS' at
     the CP/M prompt and letting it run. The program automatically
     generates any files it really needs.


     Daisy Mailer
     ------------

     Of course if you write a program on the basis of it being an
     "Apple Fido" pretty soon people start expecting it to be able to
     do FidoNet mail.

     Well after quite a lot of prodding I finally got around to
     starting on a mailer for Daisy.  Working from the early Fidonet
     Technical Standards Committee documents I built up all the code I
     needed to automatically send message back and forth from Daisy to
     Fido and Opus systems.

     Now the Daisy Mailer is an optional extra which plugs into the
     BBS and does all the packing, calling, transferring and unpacking
     of messages.

     It handles type two mail packets, file attaches and routing
     perfectly.  Echomail support is built-in and in the most recent
     versions can receive ARCmail.

     As Daisy is fully NetMail aware mail calls can be accepted at any
     time, so it qualifies for the #CM: continuous mail flag if
     correctly configured.

     Ah, but...
     ----------

     Unfortunately there is one catch if you want to use Daisy for its
     FidoNet mail capability; the Mailer has not been tested by the
     FTSC and hence has not been 'validated' by them as being Net
     compatible.

     This means that officially a Daisy BBS cannot be assigned a node
     number in the nodelist.

     Of course this doesn't stop you from using it as a Point system,
     and I've used Daisy as a point without any problems, but if you
     want a regular node number you're out of luck.

     My early attempts to get the Mailer tested and validated were to
     no avail; not because it was tested and failed those tests, but
     rather because I could never get anyone to answer my messages
     requesting that it be tested.

     More recently, around the new year, I sent a full set of Daisy
     and the Mailer on floppies to an Apple user in the U.S. at the
     request of James Deibele who is apparently now responsible for
     'foreign' mailers.

     As the Apple user in question is not a CP/M user I don't expect
     she'll get anywhere very fast (how soon do you think you'd be
     able to get Opus running if you were not a MS-DOS user and didn't
     even have a DOS bootable disk?)

     So the Daisy Mailer may or may not be tested and validated Real
     Soon Now.

     Despite all that if you have a friendly NC, as I have, you can
     probably get yourself hooked into the network for Echomail and
     such.


     Requirements
     ------------

     To run Daisy you need the following:

        * An Apple ][ series computer or compatible
        * Z80 card and CP/M software
        * Super Serial Card or compatible serial communications
          device.
        * External 300/1200 or 2400 baud Hayes AT compatible modem.

        * Clock cards, either Time ][ or TimeMaster, are optional.

        * A  large  capacity  RAM  card configured  as  a  ramdisk  is
          recommended for running the BBS, it is considered  essential
          for running the Mailer.

        * You'll also want as MUCH on-line disk storage as possible;
          floppies are okay but three would be better than two.


     Copyright
     ---------
     Daisy and its associated documentation and utilities are not PD,
     they are the copyrighted property of the authors.

     Free use and  distribution is, however, permitted - and
     encouraged.  The only restrictions are 1) you mustn't sell it
     (make money out of distributing it), 2) distribute modified
     versions without the authors permission.


     Getting Daisy
     -------------

     The following Daisy files can be FileRequested from Electronic
     BBS, 3:700/18, 2400, 23 hours a day (not during NMH).


     DSY2-D.ARC     32940 02-11-89  Documents, manuals
     DSY2-X.ARC     35061 07-19-88  Extra files, help

     DSY2HTCS.ARC   57701 11-09-88  Daisy v2H for Time II,      code
     DSY2HMCS.ARC   57872 11-09-88  Daisy v2H for Timemaster //, ''

     MSGUTL25.ARC   22793 01-03-89  Message utility v2.5 /w source
     PACKUSR4.ARC   12326 12-28-88  Pack user list v4

     MLR034.ARC     40442 02-11-89  Mailer v0.34
     NODECOMP.ARC   23311 02-11-89  Nodelist compiler

     SCHED0-5.ARC   13968 07-19-88  Scheduler v0.50, timed events
     FILER7.ARC     28110 01-06-89  Filer sub-system
     DSYST130.ARC   11131 09-04-88  Statistic program for Daisy
     DSY2G-S.ARC    89663 08-22-88  Source code of Daisy V2g

     The Daisy support echo, echo key DAISY, is also available from
     3:700/18 or 3:700/0(Mail Gateway), it has quite a low turnover.

     The Daisy support board is Daisy Information Gateway
     3:700/719(700), +852-3-765-6899, 1200 baud, 24 hours.  You won't
     find this in your Nodelist for reasons as given above.

